# CPE-Detection
Cardiogenic pulmonary edema (CPE) is a life-threatening lung condition, affecting nearly 80% of the 23 million people around the world who have lung disease with low ejection fraction. It is characterized as fluid buildup in the air sacs of the lungs due to decreased heart performance, primarily congestive heart failure. Early intervention is the best way to address this condition, as acute forms of this disease have lower morbidity and mortality. Unfortunately, state-of-the-art methods to diagnose the illness demand complicated equipment, overqualified medical professionals, and are cost-inefficient. Furthermore, such an approach fails to address time sensitivity, resulting in a contingent of people seeking treatment only after suffering more serious symptoms. To address the aforementioned issues, my project proposes an accessible machine learning-based application to diagnose cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Using the oxygen saturation (SpO2), photoplethysmographic (PPG), and electrocardiographic (ECG) sensors embedded in smartwatch technology, the software will extract data that correlate to a person’s cardiac and pulmonary health. These readings are inputted into the algorithm, a Convolutional LSTM model, which analyzes the data for feature variations; it compares these values to those normally seen in healthy controls and patients with cardiac edema and returns a confidence probability showing the likeliness of the condition. The purpose of my project is to offer an inexpensive, convenient, and accurate solution to detect cardiac edema. I strongly believe by doing this, I will contribute to reducing the number of deaths from cardiac edema around the world, and demonstrate the potential of smartwatch technology to diagnose pulmonary and cardiac-related problems. 
